---
parent: Meetings
title: "2023-09-23"
---

# LF Energy Foundation TAC Meeting - September 26, 2023

## Attendance

### Voting member attendance

- [ ] Anne Tilloy - PowSyBl Representative
- [x] Antonello Monti - SOGNO Representative
- [x] Art Pope - Google LLC
- [ ] Avi Allison - Microsoft Corporation
- [x] Boris DOLLEY - OperatorFabric Representative
- [x] Bryce Bartmann - Shell International Petroleum Company
- [x] Jonas van den Bogaard - Alliander
- [x] Maarten Mulder - Grid eXchange Fabric Representative

### Other attendees

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it
is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in
accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore
extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of,
and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US
state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings
and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux
Foundation Antitrust Policy available at
[linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy).
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel,
or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew
Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to
the Linux Foundation.

## Meeting Recording

Meeting recording and transcript is [here]()

## Agenda

- General Updates
  - Schedule guest speakers [#31](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/31)
  - Transition to LFX Meeting Management for all projects [#39](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/39)
  - use Zulip instead of slack [#48](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/48)
- New Project Proposal - GRIP [#4](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/4)
- New Working Group Proposal - AI [#35](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/35)
- Annual Review - GXF [#8](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/8)

## Notes

Mr. Mertic opened the meeting at 5:00 pm Central European Time.

Mr. Mertic review the Antitrust Policy, TAC members, Review Schedule, and the Project Sponsors list.

Mr. Mertic asked attendees to provide guest speakers and topics for future TAC meetings.

Mr. Mertic shared the plan to move all projects over to using LFX PCC Meeting Management by the end of the year. Mr. Mertic asked for projects to volunteer to move over, and indicated that in the coming weeks any projects not moved over would be reached out to to move over.

Mr. Mertic shared a topic on looking at Slack alternatives, with a specific issue opened around looking at Zulip. In general, TAC members liked Slack due to it being a common tool within thier organizations, but also saw it as a tool specifically for instant messaging. Mr. Ziegler asked if doing a review of tools that could help support knowledge bases would be helpful; attendees generally agreed that it would. Mr. Mertic asked attendees to add tools in the referenced issue to be considered.

Ms. Teyber presented the GRIP Alliance proposal to the TAC. There were questions asked about potential alignment with projects such as SOGNO, OpenSTEF, and Power Grid Model; Ms. Teyber indicated that there has not been much research done but it would something project would be open to. There were further questions powerline robustness and distributed infrastructure. 

Mr. Mertic asked the TAC to approve GRIP Alliance as a Sandbox project. Mr. Monti made the motion, and Mr. Pope seconded the motion; all TAC voting members in attendance were in favor.

Mr. Muller presented the GXF annual review. There was recognition of GXF achieving it's OpenSSF Best Practices Silver Level badge.

Mr. Mertic asked the TAC to approve the renewal of GXF at the Early Adoption stage. Mr. Bogaard made the motion, and Mr. Dolley seconded the motion; all TAC voting members in attendance were in favor.

Mr. Parisot presented a proposal for an AI Working Group. There was generally agreement of this being a valuable working group to have 

Mr. Mertic asked the TAC to approve formation of the AI Working Group. Mr. Dolley made the motion, and Mr. Monti seconded the motion; all TAC voting members in attendance were in favor.

Mr. Brown presented marketing and PR updates. 

Mr. Mertic closed the meeting at 6:23 pm Central European Time.

## Next Meeting Agenda

- Annual Review - Grid Capacity Map [#6](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/6)
- Annual Review - OpenEEmeter [#7](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/7)
- New Project Proposal - Open Sustainable Technology [#42](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/42)
- Review OpenSSF Badge Status [#10](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/10)
- Security audits for Early Adoption projects through OSTIF [#11](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/11)
- LFX Security for LF Energy projects [#13](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/13)
- Develop security strategy for LF Energy project [#14](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/14)
